All right, so let's visit the simplest
of the ArrayList methods, because these are easy
to overlook in an exam question.
You need to create a new class in our ArrayList project,
I'm gonna call it ArrayListExtras.
(typing)
All right, so this code consists firstly,
of a class, ArrayListExtras, obviously,
but we've also got a nested static BaseClass there.
And I'm gonna use that in our typed ArrayList,
which we'll talk about shortly.
So this static class, this nested class,
has a simple one parameter constructor
that sets its attribute name, as you can see.
An additional setter method for name,
as well as the toString method.
So scrolling down, we've got our main method there.
This creates two tops or ArrayList objects.
One's a rawList.
And one's a typedList, with the BaseClass type.
So you can see, we're adding new BaseClass objects
to the typed ArrayList initially.
We're demonstrating looping next,
using the typed ArrayList, with not casting required.
And populating the rawList at the same time,
with its own copies of the BaseClass objects.
And then scrolling down further,
demonstrating accessing elements from each list,
noting that the BaseClass list requires no casting.
We're on that.
All right, so none of this is out of the ordinary,
but let's just compare the add and set methods a little bit.
So close the output pane.
All right, so I'm gonna add a bit more code
to the main method here, like so.
Now look closely at the add method and the set method.
Both reference of index that one past the last index,
which is always that List.size minus one.
Let's run it and see what happens here.
Yeah, you can see that we've got an exception thrown
at the set statement and not at the add statement.
So line 69 in this case,
with the exception Index 5 out of bounds.
So this is a subtle difference,
which you might easily overlook
in an exam question as you get weary.
If you remember that add, is really adding more elements,
either appending to the list or inserting
additional elements at a specified index.
And set is changing the object being referenced
at a particular index.
You'll know that setting an object at an index past
the list's size will cause an error, and it did here.
So let's remove, well actually what I'll do,
is I'll comment out the set there.
And it's that below that, what I'm going to do,
is take a copy of the add, paste it in there.
We gotta change this over here.
Instead of typedList.size, you're gonna put
a plus one there, everything else is the same.
Run the code.
And we've got another exception,
this time, as you can see on line 70.
If you're going to use the add method
and exceed the index size, it can only be by one.
All right, so let's remove that line out.
All right, so we're gonna add some more code.
We need to import Java.U2.list.
Now this code's using the addAll method with an index,
to add all the elements in the list to the typed ArrayList.
And you can see with addAll, that again,
if we use an index and want to add elements
to the end of the list, we use the List.size.
And that's equal to addAll with no index.
And now in addition, we're using the set method
on our rawList to add the elements to the typedSubList.
Now the problem here, is we've got a compiler error
on the typedList.set statement.
Because we defined a type for this ArrayList,
the compiler indicates that we've made an error
and we're trying to set something
other than BaseClass into the list.
So we'll comment that out, for that reason.
And let's also take some output,
some code that will do some outputting for us,
and put that down at the bottom as well.
Let's now run this.
Now look closely at the output, specifically as rawList.
And notice, that we didn't actually insert elements
at index zero, instead we replaced the BaseClass object
with our sub-typedList.
The point here, is that it's very easy
to overlook the misuse of these methods,
that are part of our most common Lexicon.
So something to watch out for, certainly in exams.
All right, so let's now look at set
with newly instantiated lists.
So we've got some more code to paste in here.
All right, so there's the code.
Now as you can see, this code compiles.
But when I run it, we actually get an exception on line 94.
So we'll change line 94 to be an add, instead of a set.
Run it again.
We've not got an exception, as you can see on line 97.
So I'm gonna do the same thing.
Set becomes add.
Run it again.
Another exception, line 101 this time.
We'll change set to be add, and run it again.
And the code now works without an exception.
So you can see here, that just instantiating a list,
even when setting capacity, doesn't fill the list
with any default elements, including null.
All right, so finally here, let's see what happens
with subList, when we use it on the typed ArrayList.
So I'm gonna paste some more code in.
So this code segment,
I've introduced an error on the last line.
Because it's a rawList returned, trying to access an object
on the list, and not specifying a type,
well, that results in a compiler error.
In this case, you can see it's trying to setName,
you can't resolve method setName in object,
because of the type.
I'll comment that last line out.
So this video reviewed things
that were really not out of the ordinary,
but things that are ordinary and easy to overlook.
Be careful if you see methods that are similarly named
to those on List, like setAll, not a method on List,
but a method on the Arrays class.
Or methods that have the wrong number of parameters,
such as indexOf, lastIndexOf methods
with additional parameters, String usage not List usage.
Be careful to remember that using set,
with an index out of the range,
will cause a runtime exception.
All right, so we'll finish the video here.
Next I'm gonna present you with a couple of quiz questions,
then we'll move on to the next video after that.
And that's gonna be understanding lambda expressions.
So I'll see you in the next video.